Now we are handling the authentication and we are updating the layout, but we have one more issue left.
Let's log in with a user here.
Now we are seeing this navigation bar with logged in state, but if we refresh at this point, we are
back to not logged in state.
So let's make sure after the application is reloaded, the login state is kept.
And to achieve that, we are going to use the local storage functionality of the browsers in the test.
We are not able to reload the pages, so we have to split the test into two step.
The first one is after the login we are going to store the the authentication state in the storage.
Then in the next one, in the next test we will initialize the local storage with the log in user state.
Then we are going to render our app and in the end we expect to see my profile link to be visible in
the bar.
So let's add the first test.
So to the EB component, Specter is adding the test and this is for storing the data in local stores.
So it stores logged in state in local storage.
So we are calling setup look in this is handling all the login operation like filling the login form,
sending the request and then redirecting to homepage.
At the moment the login is completed.
Therefore we can check the local storage and we can access to local storage like this.
There is this local storage API and from the local storage we will get the item and we will have an
item out.
This is returning back a string or null.
But for our test case we know that it's going to be having value.
Now we are going to pass it to JSON via JSON parse functionality.
But this one is complaining because the returned results for the git item, maybe not, but we know
that it is not null.
And this is basically going to be the the object of, let's say, state.
But the type is going to be.
Our authenticated user logged in user data so we can use this type logged in user type here.
And we can do the casting.
Logged in user.
Then we can do the assertion.
We can check each field.
But one of them is enough.
Like stage will have is logged in property which will be.
True.
Now.
Let's save this one.
The test is failing because this is the state is null.
Therefore we are not able to access to this is logged in property of this null object.
Now we are going to fix it.
So here in the authentication service, this set logged in user function is called after the successful
login.
So we can update the storage with this.
This object.
So we can call like this local storage set item and the key is owed because we are checking out.
So we are setting it here and the value will be string and we can use JSON string ify to convert this
logged in user object.
This one to string.
So let's say this one.
Now this test is passing.
So after successful login we are keeping the logged in users state in the local storage of the browser.
Now in the test we are using the local storage and we must be careful when using any external functionality
like this one, because in the test we must have a predictable test environment and this local storage
is affecting other tests at the moment because the local storage state is kept between tests like we
we can confirm this like this right here before this test, like before this test executed, we can
just log what we have in the local storage.
So just getting this one.
Let's do this.
But let's also open the karma developer tools.
So it will be here.
At the moment, we don't have any logs.
But if we save the the test, the test will rerun.
And let's check the console here.
Now, we see this this output and this is coming from the console log we have just added to the test.
So in this test, before we do anything, the local search is already having the odd object.
And that's because in the previous test we are also having the successful login.
So this one is also updating the local storage.
Therefore, when this test is running because of the previous one already updated, the local storage
is one.
We are having all this value in the local storage.
So the states of the test must be predictable.
Therefore we are assuming the local storage will be initially empty and we will fill it after the login.
So let's make sure the local storage will always cleared after each test so we can use.
Let's scroll up here.
We have the lifecycle functions function selector before each and let's add after each year.
So after each test we are going to clear the content of the local storage like this.
Saving it.
And let's open the console once again.
Tests are running now.
It is printing now, which means the local storage is empty.
So initially the local store is empty and the local storage is filled right after a successful login.
Now we don't need this one.
So we have completed the first step.
Now the login is updating the local search with the logged in user state.
Next step is to use this local storage data when initializing authentication service.
So when the application is initialized, we are going to load the authentication service.
Initial data from local storage.
So let's add a test for that.
Now in this one.
We will be displaying a display's layout of logged in user.
So we are going to display the logged in user state here.
But this time we are not going to call this setup login, but we will do the navigation by ourselves
like this.
We are not calling this one.
So first, let's go to Homepage.
Then we will wait for UI to be to be updated.
But before we do anything we are going to update the local storage with the with the user data.
So let's do that.
So we are going to call local storage set item and we are filling out the key is odd and is an object.
We will pass a string.
And let's convert our user object to string.
And in this object we have the user ID username is logged in email, but for this test it is only enough
to have this is logged in.
So we are initializing the local storage.
So we are setting out to local storage and it has the user's information and it is saying it is logged
in.
Then we are opening the home page.
We didn't do anything about the login page, we didn't fill the form.
Basically we are opening the page for the home page and then we are expecting it to be showing the the
logged in state and the logged in state means that we have this my profile link.
So let's create a that one.
And we don't need to cast it in anything.
So we are expecting this my profile link to be to be pretty.
So this is the test.
Let's say this one.
So this one is failing it, the space layout of the user.
The things we are doing here is not having any effect at the moment.
So we will use the storage, local storage in old authentication service right here.
So this is the constructor and this is being called when an instance from this service is created.
So right here in this constructor, we can set value for this logged in user.
So first thing is we will get, let's say, stored data and we take it from local storage get item,
let's get old.
So this can be null.
It's either string or null.
So it is not null.
So if you have value stored data, then let's pass it to JSON and set it to this logged in user.
So this logged in user is JSON parse stored data.
By the way, this pass functionality can throw error if the the text the string is not in JSON format.
Therefore, we can wrap this one with ribcage right here and we just omit the error case here.
So.
This will be initializing the logged in user if we have a passable string for the old key.
So let's say this.
Now the test is still failing, but let's test this one on browser.
Let's also open the developer tools.
So let's clear this part and let's switch to the application.
And in the application tab, in the developer tools, we have the section for the local storage.
Let's go into that and let's expand this part and we have the domains here.
And currently this is localhost 4200.
And here we have key and values.
Initially, this is empty.
Let's log in.
So filling the form is a one at gmail.com password.
Hitting enter.
Now the storage is updated.
Now we have this key ode and corresponding value.
And we have this user information like the user one at gmail.com.
It's ID and is logged in is true.
Now if we refresh the application that's reloaded here, now we are seeing the the state is preserved.
So it is able to pull the the state from the local storage and the initial layout is displaying the
logged in state.
But the test is failing and the reason of the failure is here in the test flow.
So whenever the test code is executed right here.
Our component, our application is already initialized and that is being handled in here in this before
each.
So this is initializing whole application with all the dependencies and one of the dependencies, the
authentication service.
And that means the authentication service is already initialized in the before each.
So the storage we are sitting right here is not have any effect because the the constructor is already
called for the authentication service.
And so at this point we are too late to set the local storage with the logged in user value.
So for this test case, we must be able to run this one like setting authentication value to storage
before even before each run.
So before this is running we must be setting the local storage.
But with the current setup we cannot do that because before each always run before each of the test.
So when this function is executed, the before each function is already executed and completed.
So in cases like this when we need to do something else before the application initialized, the before
each approach we are using at the moment is not useful.
So for resolution, let's do like this.
Let's remove let's convert this before each to a function set of function.
So here this is going to be set up.
And it is async function and it is ending here.
Let's also move the move the next before each content into this one.
Now we have this setup.
But now we have to call this setup in each of these tests.
So right here, we have to call setup.
So we'd sit up here.
Then in the next one.
We calls it up and in the next one.
We are calling setup.
Again repeating this on the next test.
And now we are in this group for login.
We are using this set up login in each of the tests.
So let's make sure we are calling setup before we do the navigation.
And in the in this test we are using setup login.
So we don't need to call the setup because the setup login is already doing that.
But in the last test we need to call the setup, but we are going to do do it after the local storage
is set.
So before anything is initialized we are setting value in the local storage.
Then we are initializing the application, navigating to the home page and then we are checking the
visible elements.
By the way, there is an error here and this is because this test is not async.
And let's also check if we have other errors here.
And it looks fine.
Let's save this one.
And here we see all tests are passing.
We already verify this is working on browser and now it is working in the karma test as well.